This repository contains Java functionality for generating permutations and combinations. The generation functions constitute the Java conversion of the Scala functions available in the PermComb repository. 

Because Java (8) has no singly linked list container type, and the generation functions perform best with singly linked lists, a home made singly linked list container is made available as well.

The singly linked list (SList) is interesting in its own right. It offers most functionality that is usually available for container types, including iterability, so SList can be used in the enhanced for-statement. Many higher-order functions like filter, map, flatMap, map2, foldLeft and foldRight are supported as well. The implementation is light-weight and very fast: comparable to or faster than library versions of singly linked lists implementations in other languages like for instance Scala.

The structuring of the singly linked list implementation is as follows. The list is accessible through the interface SList. Two Java classes implement SList: SListImpl and SListNil. SListImpl represents a single list fragment with one value object and one pointer to the next list fragment. SListNil represents the empty list and is used as a stopper at the end of each list. By using an SList implementing stopper element, each list (empty as well as non-empty) can be treated in the same way. The user of SList is not supposed to instantiate SListImpl and SListNil. All list creation and list manipulation functionality is available as methods of the SList interface and as static functions of the singleton class SL. SL contains in particular factory methods to construct SList instances of zero, one or more elements.

There are two versions of SL and of SListImpl: one set in the package slist.rec and one set in the package slist.iter. The set in slist.rec has all utility functions implemented with recursive algorithms, the set in slist.iter has all utility functions implemented with iterative algorithms. The recursive implementation can be considered as a reference implementation. This implementation works correct but has poor time and memory performance. Processing of very long lists will cause stack overflow errors. 
